h1. Sensa Server

h2. Overview

Sensa Server is the command center for your bioreactor.  Monitor and control biological systems like a compost tea brewer or an algae grower with an array of sensors and actuators.

h2. Developing

* Clone the Git repository
* Use Ruby 1.9.3 or 2.0
* Run "bundle install"
* Run "bundle exec rake db:setup db:test:prepare" to setup your dev/test databases
* Run "bundle exec rake spec" for automated testing

By default, the development environment is configured to talk to a stubbed hardware layer, so you don't have to plug real devices into your serial port.

h2. Configuring

Configuring for production requires setting the serial port path in config/application.rb's config.hardware.serial_port.path.  In production mode, the app is configured to use this serial port to actually talk to devices.

Also, the Rails secret_token is not yet extracted to an environment variable a la dotenv.

h2. Roadmap

So far, we have some basic feeding and display of sensor readings.

The next major feature areas are:

* Collecting sensor readings from a background thread
* Multiple actuators
* Composite dosing sequences, for example, activate a solenoid valve before turning on the pump
* Configurable actuators and dosing sequences
* Network communication between the local controller and an offsite server

Smaller improvements for existing functionality:

* Add About and Terms pages (the page layout already has links for them)
** The About page should give a simple overview of the product
** The Terms should exist so that it's clear the software is licensed not sold
* Dashboard
** Show a min/max acceptable range for sensor values, and show whether the status is in (OK) or out (critical)
** Show multiple axes/sensors on one graph and/or multiple graphs on the sensor index page
** Trend and show current value over last N rather than last 2 readings
** Extract code in index template to a presenter
* Sensor Graphs
** Check for JS errors on page
** Allow the time range for sensor readings to be controlled in the UI
** Preaggregate readings for more efficient reporting over long periods
** Show doses on graphs with vertical line or shaded area
* Sensors
** Ensure sensor workflows actually delete readings as advertised in confirmation
** Allow new sensors to be configured (by setting GPIO pin no. or serial port)
* Address intermittent failing spec: Feeding Dosing records exceptions as failures
* Dosing
** Add pump status indicator
** Limit values allowed in status field, default to started in the model
** Paginate Doses list
** Store thread ID in worker field and check whether it's dead when listing
** Decide how/whether to handle multiple concurrent doses
** Show actual amount dosed so far for each dose
** Confirm on cancellation of an in-progress dose
